docs/decisions/0011-fhirserver.md, before:

# 11. FHIR Server

Date: 2022-06-28

## Status

Accepted

## Context and Problem Statement

FHIR is a standardized data format that is used nationally to report health data. 

A FHIR Server assists in bringing together data from various systems into one common, readable dataset. The FHIR Server itself does not do any analytical work, but aims to normalize public health data. In the case of this project, public health data will be reported from a variety of sources such as prisons, pharamacies, schools, and hospitals. A FHIR Server will ingest the records and become a single source of truth for a public health agency's data. 


## Decision Drivers

**Integration with Existing Systems** - The CDC has an existing cloud environment (Azure) so being able to work well with their existing system helps the development process. The team is working to get the first version into production so ease of maintainability and integration are important. 

**Flexiblility** - While the team is developing the solution, flexibility is important as requirements are being discovered. 

## Considered Options

### Google Cloud FHIR Server

Google Cloud FHIR service has tight integration with other GCP products such as BigQuery, Storage, Pub/Sub Integration

Pros:
- In GCP FHIR Server, you pay for what you use. This advantage would be key if demand is unpredictable or high variance. 
- Access to tools such as BigQuery for data analytics. 
- Supports all versions of FHIR

Cons:
- More expensive for storage and API calls

### AWS FHIR Works

AWS FHIRWorks is Amazon's FHIR Server product that integrates with AWS services such as DynamoDB, Elasticsearch, Lambda, etc.

Pros:
- FHIR Works is the cheapest of the three options 
- Integrates with natural language processing services for specific medical use cases.

Cons:
- Does not support certain key features such as patch calls, bundles, or conditionals

### Mircrosoft Azure FHIR Server

Azure FHIR server is Azure's FHIR server product that allows developers to create FHIR applications using Azure products.

Pros:
- Since the CDC already uses Azure, using Azure FHIR server will be easier to integrate with their existing system. 
- Azure FHIR server supports both NoSQL (CosmoDB) and SQL. Azure is pushing more features on to their SQL solution. 

Cons:
- If using CosmoDB, users must manage partitioning and set number of request units
- Pay-for-what-you-might-use model. Currently Azure is running on a prepaid system which may be worse for unpredictable demand.
- Certain search and API features are missing in Azure that is supported by GCP


## Decision Outcome

Microsoft Azure FHIR Server

THe CDC's cloud environment is primarily in Azure so Azure FHIR Server would help speed up the development process. In addition, Azure FHIR Server supports both NoSQL and SQL solutions. Specifically, a SQL solution may fit best with our project as it helps maintain data integrity and table joins. 

Should the team learn that there is certain key features missing in Azure FHIR Server, re-evaluating GCP FHIR Server may be the next best option.

## Appendix 

- [Virginia Department of Health White Paper](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17_AWGAPPdV-m7jZ0VZYtU1CtPt63Ri0zLNoorId5Gqc/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Microsoft FHIR Server](https://github.com/microsoft/fhir-server)
- [Are all FHIR APIs the same?](https://vneilley.medium.com/are-all-fhir-apis-the-same-v2-e8d8359e1412)

Commit message:

Added more context and new decision drivers

docs/decisions/0011-fhirserver.md, after:

# 11. FHIR Standards and FHIR Server

Date: 2022-06-28

## Status

Accepted

## Context and Problem Statement

In healthcare, data is gathered from many different sources. Hospitals, prisons, schools, pharmacies, and more all gather healthcare data that state and local territories (STLTs) need to gather to report public health data accurately. In order to ingest data from these different reporting sites, there needed to be a way to standardize the data across all departments of health. 

Previously, HL7 standards were the solution to this issue, but the problems of HL7 was that it was hard to use with modern internet architecture as well as being humanly unreadable. FHIR was created to solve both of these issues. 

The FHIR (Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources 1 ) standard defines how healthcare
information can be exchanged between different computer systems regardless of how it is stored in those
systems. It allows healthcare information, including clinical and administrative data, to be available
securely to those who have a need to access it, and to those who have the right to do so for the benefit
of a patient receiving care. The standards development organization HL7® (Health Level Seven®3) uses a
collaborative approach to develop and upgrade FHIR.

FHIR is a standardized data format that is used nationally to report health data. 

A FHIR Server assists in bringing together data from various systems into one common, readable dataset. The FHIR Server itself does not do any analytical work, but aims to normalize public health data. In the case of this project, public health data will be reported from a variety of sources such as prisons, pharamacies, schools, and hospitals. A FHIR Server will ingest the records and become a single source of truth for a public health agency's data. 


## Decision Drivers

**Integration with Existing Systems** - The CDC has an existing cloud environment (Azure) so being able to work well with their existing system helps the development process. The team is working to get the first version into production so ease of maintainability and integration are important. 

**Flexiblility** - While the team is developing the solution, flexibility is important as requirements are being discovered. 

**Support for a broad and complex data model** -  The solution needs to capture all relevant data in a structured way. Healthcare data can be complex due to the different sources of healthcare data being reported differently. 

**Analtyics** -  The platform needs to support epidemiologists' analytical tools.

**History and Logging** - Healthcare data modifications, additions, and deletions need to be tracked over time for historical logging.

**Time to market** - Working with a solution that accelerates our time to market 

## Considered Options

### FHIR Server vs. Custom Solution



### Which FHIR Server?

#### Google Cloud FHIR Server

Google Cloud FHIR service has tight integration with other GCP products such as BigQuery, Storage, Pub/Sub Integration

Pros:
- In GCP FHIR Server, you pay for what you use. This advantage would be key if demand is unpredictable or high variance. 
- Access to tools such as BigQuery for data analytics. 
- Supports all versions of FHIR

Cons:
- More expensive for storage and API calls

#### AWS FHIR Works

AWS FHIRWorks is Amazon's FHIR Server product that integrates with AWS services such as DynamoDB, Elasticsearch, Lambda, etc.

Pros:
- FHIR Works is the cheapest of the three options 
- Integrates with natural language processing services for specific medical use cases.

Cons:
- Does not support certain key features such as patch calls, bundles, or conditionals

#### Mircrosoft Azure FHIR Server

Azure FHIR server is Azure's FHIR server product that allows developers to create FHIR applications using Azure products.

Pros:
- Since the CDC already uses Azure, using Azure FHIR server will be easier to integrate with their existing system. 
- Azure FHIR server supports both NoSQL (CosmoDB) and SQL. Azure is pushing more features on to their SQL solution. 

Cons:
- If using CosmoDB, users must manage partitioning and set number of request units
- Pay-for-what-you-might-use model. Currently Azure is running on a prepaid system which may be worse for unpredictable demand.
- Certain search and API features are missing in Azure that is supported by GCP


## Decision Outcome

Microsoft Azure FHIR Server

THe CDC's cloud environment is primarily in Azure so Azure FHIR Server would help speed up the development process. In addition, Azure FHIR Server supports both NoSQL and SQL solutions. Specifically, a SQL solution may fit best with our project as it helps maintain data integrity and table joins. 

Should the team learn that there is certain key features missing in Azure FHIR Server, re-evaluating GCP FHIR Server may be the next best option.

## Appendix 

- [Virginia Department of Health White Paper](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17_AWGAPPdV-m7jZ0VZYtU1CtPt63Ri0zLNoorId5Gqc/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Microsoft FHIR Server](https://github.com/microsoft/fhir-server)
- [Are all FHIR APIs the same?](https://vneilley.medium.com/are-all-fhir-apis-the-same-v2-e8d8359e1412)
